#Yale Miller Self-Assessment

I did this project solo. This was, in hindsight, not a wise choice for completing the project, but it was very helpful for my own personal learning. Since this was a solo project,  I did everything on my own, from the front end to the very slim backend to finding and compiling the data. While some projects may be about refining a student’s strengths, this project for me was more about exploring an area I did not have prior experience in. Last fall I set out to learn more about developing front end applications, specifically in JavaScript using D3, in order to create a data visualization about how daily life will change under the pressures of climate change.

My past co-op and professional aspirations have drifted away from development toward UX/UI. During this project I wanted to get back to doing development while exploring an area where design and development often overlap: data visualization. Over the course of building this project, I was able to gain that experience by learning more about development with javascript/typescript. Another competency that I did not expect to be as big of a challenge was finding and then compiling the data. I learned a lot about where to find datasets that work for a good visualization. 

At the end of the semester my group (myself) was able to build a functioning data visualization utilizing scrolly-telling techniques to demonstrate how your daily eating habits will both be impact by climate change and in turn how their consumption impacts the environment. The application was originally planned to be developed using D3 and javascript, however it became clear that the main challenge of this project was not creating data visualizations but managing the unique scrolling behavior. Therefore, the architecture was changed to use react and typescript. This way each scene can be its own component.

Although I did this project solo, I still believe it taught me some valuable lessons about teamwork. Because my attention was split across compiling the data, conducting research, and working on the front end, I felt like I was not able to bring either one of these parts of the project to full fruition. Even just having to do all the “paperwork” required for a capstone by myself detracted from being able to work on the project. However, by doing all parts of the project on my own I was able to maintain an intimate understanding of how each part interacts with each other. Some time was able to be saved that would have been spent on team meetings or coordinating tasks amongst each other. In the end, while doing this project solo was a valuable learning opportunity, in the future I would prefer doing projects like this with a team.
